DOCS-1980 Add IM getting started (#10936)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/incident_management/_index.md

      text: 'Datadog on Incident Management'
    - link: '/monitors/incident_management'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Incident Management'
    - link: '/blog/incident-response-with-datadog/'
      tag: 'Blog'
      text: 'Incident Management with Datadog'
    - link: '/monitors/incident_management/notification_rules'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Notification Rules'
    - link: '/integrations/slack/?tab=slackapplicationus#using-datadog-incidents'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Slack integration with incidents'
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">Incident Management is not available on the Datadog for Government site.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Overview

Datadog Incident Management is for tracking and communicating about an issue you've identified with your metrics, traces, or logs.

This guide walks you through using the Datadog app for declaring an incident, updating the incident as investigation and remediation progresses, and generating a postmortem when the incident has been resolved. The example assumes the [Slack integration][1] is enabled.

## Walking through an incident from issue detection to resolution

> ### Declaring an Incident

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Declaring an incident
```

**Scenario:** A monitor is alerting on a high number of errors which may be slowing down several services. It's unclear whether customers are being impacted.

> For this guide, we are using the [Datadog Clipboard][2] to declare an incident.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes using the [Datadog Clipboard][2] to declare an incident.
```

> 1. Open the Clipboard: **Ctrl**/**Cmd** + **Shift** + **K**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the Clipboard: **Ctrl**/**Cmd** + **Shift** + **K**.
```

 In the _Remediation_ section, you can keep track of documents and tasks for investigating the issue or for post-incident remediation tasks.

1. Click the **Remediation** tab.

2. Click the the plus icon (+) in the _Documents_ box and add a link to a Datadog notebook.

    All additions and updates to the _Documents_ section are added to the timeline as an _Incident Update_ type.

3. Add a task by adding a description of a task in the _Incident Tasks_ box, for example: `Run the steps in the notebook.`

4. Click **Create Task**.

5. Click **Assign To** and assign yourself the task.

6. Click **Set Due Date** and set the date for today.

    All task additions and changes are recorded in the _Timeline_.

    You can also add post-incident tasks in the _Remediation_ section to keep track of them.

#### Communications

**Scenario:** The issue has been mitigated, and the team is monitoring the situation. The incident status is now stable.

In the _Communications_ section, you can send out a notification updating the status of the incident.

1. Navigate back to the _Overview_ section.

2. Click **Edit** in the _Properties_ box and change the status to _stable_.

> 3. Click **Save.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click **Save**.
```

4. Go to the _Communications_ tab.

5. Click **New Communication**.

    The default message has the incident's title in the subject and information about the current status of the incident in the body.

    In an actual incident you would send updates to the people involved in the incident. For this example, you will send a notification to yourself only.

6. Add yourself to _Add recipients_.

7. Click **Send**.

    You should receive an email with the message.

    You can create customized templates by clicking on **Manage Templates** > **New Template**. Group templates together using the _Category_ field.

> ### Resolution / Postmortem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resolution and postmortem
```

Author: Should postmortem be capitalized?

Author: nevermind!

**Scenario:** It's been confirmed that the issue no longer impacts customers and that you've resolved the issue. The team wants a postmortem to look back on what went wrong.

1. Go to the _Overview_ section.

2. Click **Edit** in the _Impact_ box to update the customer impact.

3. Toggle the **Active** switch so that it's no longer active.

    You can also change the date and time for when the customer impact ended if it occurred earlier.

4. Click **Edit** in the _Properties_ box to update the status of the incident.

5. Change the status to _resolved_.

6. Click **Save**.

    When an incident's status is set to resolved, a _Generate Postmortem_ button appears at the top.

    {{< img src="getting_started/incident_management/generate_postmortem.png" alt="Generate Postmortem" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

> 7. Click **Generate Postmortem.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click **Generate Postmortem**.
```

8. For the timeline section, select **Marked as Important** so that only the _Important_ events are added to the postmortem.

> 9. Click **Generate.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Click **Generate**.
```

    The postmortem will be generated as a Datadog Notebook, and it includes the timeline events and resources referenced during the investigation and remediation. This makes it easier to review and further document what caused the issue and how to prevent it in the future. Datadog Notebook supports live collaboration so you can edit it with your teammates in real-time.

    If there are follow-up tasks that you and your team need to complete to ensure the issue doesn't happen again, add those and track them in the Remediation's _Incident Tasks_ section.

## Customizing your incident management workflow

Datadog Incident Management can be customized with different severity and status levels, based on your organization's needs, and also include additional information such as APM services and teams related to the incident. For more information, see this [section][7] of the Incident Management page.

You can also set up notification rules to automatically notify specific people or services based on an incident's severity level. For more information, see the [Notification Rules][8] documentation.

> To customize Incident Management, go to the [incident settings page][9]. From the Datadog menu on the left-hand side, go to **Monitors** > **Incidents** (if you get an Incident Management welcome screen, click on **Get Started**). Then on the top right corner, click **Settings**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize Incident Management, go to the [incident settings page][9]. From the Datadog menu on the left-hand side, go to **Monitors** > **Incidents** (if you get an Incident Management welcome screen, click **Get Started**). Then on the top right corner, click **Settings**.
```

{{< img src="getting_started/incident_management/im_settings_button.png" alt="Settings" responsive="true" style="width:100%;">}} 

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]:/integrations/slack/?tab=slackapplicationus#overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]:/integrations/slack/
```

[2]:/monitors/incident_management/datadog_clipboard
[3]:/notebooks/#overview
[4]:/monitors/incident_management/#from-a-graph
[5]:/monitors/incident_management/#from-a-monitor
[6]:/api/latest/incidents/#create-an-incident

> [7]:/incident_management/#status-levels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[7]: /monitors/incident_management/#status-levels
```
